README for the MahJong server / client

This is the 0.2 version.  There are some big changes.  If you are upgrading
from 0.1, your best choice is probably installing it in a separate directory
tree, and then move some of your old files over.

1.	Things you need to run the MahJong server:

	JDK 1.0 or later.
	httpd or other web servers.

2.	Installation

Basically, you simply need to modify the file mj.html.  Starting at line 43,
find the <applet> tag.  You only need to change the value of the ServerHost
parameter to the name of your machine.  If there are several aliases or IP
numbers, then use a colon (':') separated list.  The DocBase parameter points
to documents in my home page.  They are included in the distribution.  If you
want the HELP menu in the client to show the docs at your site, then change
this parameter to point to your site.

Also put your company name, and your home page or email address in the
header of mj.html.

Note that the server has to listen on its own port.  The default is 5656.
If some other port number is desired, change the ServerPort tag in mj.html.
Also change the port number in the start_server script.

3.	Starting the server

Make sure there is an httpd or other web server running on the machine, and
the file mj.html is publically accessible through http.

Run the script start_server to start running the server under the Java
interpreter.  This process should be kept running.  The script redirects
all output into a file server_log.

4.	Stopping the server

Run the script stop_server.  Alternatively, use 'ps -x' to find the Java
interpreter process and kill it manually.

If server_log is to be scrutinized for debugging purposes, be sure to rename
it before running start_server again.

Running start_server twice without stopping the server causes the second
server to abort, but you won't see an error message.  In this case, check
the server_log file for error messages.

5.	The new database format

0.2 uses a different player database format.  It comes with a utility to
convert the old format into the new one.  First, copy the old database into
database_old, make sure there is no file called database, then run 

java server.Reformat database_old database

This will produce a database file that contains all the information of your
old player database.

